[Music]
I'm sure you have used JWT many times
but have you ever think about what it is
even though you have not used it maybe
you have heard about JWT and in this
episode we are going to see what is JWT
what it can do how it can be created
what the structure of JWT and all these
things that means the JWT explained so
with that I'm your host started and this
is a channel where I talk about web
development related things like lateral
views ears react angular and much more
exciting thing so if you are new to this
channel don't for word subscribe and
like with tombs on Facebook Twitter and
Instagram so let's start this video to
know more about JWT but first thing
first what the JSON web token JWT is
it's an open standard open a standard
this means anyone can use it and why it
is used it is used to securely transfer
information between any two bodies and
two bodies that means any two users any
two server any two bodies okay and why
it is used because it is digitally
signed this means information is
verified and trusted there is no
alteration of data in between the
transfer so that's why it is displace
find and then comes the most important
part which is compact it is so compact
that you can just send it why I do RL as
get requests then you can send this as a
post request as a HTTP header and in
that way it's supremely fast that fast
transmission makes JWT more usable and
that's why it is easily used it is self
contained and what that self contained
means it means if that token that means
the jadibooti token itself contained the
information about the user and this
avoid querying the database more than
once suppose you have logged in or
user your user just logged in one time
you verify the information like username
password then you just provide a token
so every other time the user going to
request something from your website you
don't have to log in you just have to
pass that token and then GWT system will
just verify that token and if that
passes give the information or respond
to that request that's the case of self
contained a single token is having
everything in it but why GWT is useful
GWT is useful in case of authentication
as I have just explained you it is used
for exchanging information between any
two bodies as we have discussed okay but
what a JSON web token structure will
look like you can see we have three
parts the a part the B part and the C
parts the a part is actually the header
header part then we have concatenated
the B part which is called payload and
again the last one is the signature
let's first understand header and then
we will proceed
so what header includes header will look
like this it's a JSON object simple and
it includes two fields and one is a LG
simply algorithm algorithm like H Mac
sha-256 RSA this means this a LG will
tell the JWT that in which algorithm it
is encoded then comes Eve IP that means
the type type of web token which is
simply JWT
this jason and this header jason is then
base64 encoded to form the first part we
have seen let's see this the first part
the a part we have here and this a part
then encoded in the form of base64 to
form the first part the a part okay then
comes the payload payload again have a
structure itself JSON object simply and
it contains the claims
I earn forth claims claims are the user
detail or additional metadata like
expiry date of the token is that admin
or not other things then payload itself
then base64 encoded to form the second
part the be part of the JWT then comes
the most important part which is
signature five year using signature we
told the GWT that in the header yeah we
are going to use this kind of token and
you have to encode this with this time
of algorithm then we have told the GWT
that these are the fields I am going to
pass these are the things which you
self-contained
but how we will ensure that this data
will not change while transferring to
one body to other body so here comes the
signature signature uses base64 header
then concatenate with base64 version of
payload and all these things then etch
Mac sha-256 encoded this contain base64
header base64 payload with a secret and
this important thing because if someone
even changed the payload he don't know
about the secret and then this signature
will not exactly the same with the
original payload and if you are confused
I will show you this in just a moment
this provide the signature provide more
security
so after combining all these three
things we get our GWT combined with a
dot the first one the base64 version of
header then the second one base64
version of payload then the third one
base64 of header dot base64 of payload
then secret all these things ashmac
sha-256 encoded to form the signature
this last one so this is actually the
GWT and let's explain this you have a
browser and you have a
then from the browser you send a post
request to the server with the
credential like the username and
password then server catch that verified
that authenticate that and if everything
good JWT
is generated with a secret and then that
passed back to the browser if we get a
successful JWT then we will send the GWT
on the header on the post request on URL
to access some protected resources on
our website then on the server first we
check about the GWT if GWT signature
matches with the signature we have
defined then it is you the information
that everything is good and you can
access this protected field and respond
to the client if signature doesn't
matter it will just say an authenticated
so these are the things you have to
learn about JWT
but let's go to this GWT dot IO website
and let's see what will going to happen
if we change something on this website
so we have this GWT all these things
this is the header part the payload and
the secret but what if I alter this if I
remove this mind you can see it says
invalid signature that's good because we
have changed and coded part but what if
in between the transmission someone
changed the payload and then he put that
base encoded part of the new payload
here so let's just copy this one from
here go to new tab and I will say base64
encode online go here on the encode part
I will paste that and instead of true I
will say false
and let's encode it copy this encode
part base64 and
now let's see here signature is verified
because everything is good this
signature is created with admin as a
true but if I change this payload base64
it become false but now it says invalid
because signature is created with admin
as a true and new payload has admin as a
false this means signature is not
verified with the payload so now let's
play with secret we have done changes in
the payload so if I'd say a true
signature verified but what I gave wrong
secret so if I remove T you can see even
though payload is correct
the signature doesn't match --is this
means this time I have changed the
signature so if I give single till at
last you can see signature verifies and
this is the cool part of using GWT and
in that way GWT simply works so let me
know what you think about GWT whether
you are using it whether you are not
using it whatever thing just comment
below on this video so that everyone's
so so that we have a healthy discussion
on the JWT if you have any doubt feel
free to message me commit me on Facebook
Twitter and Instagram you can email me
and don't forget to subscribe like bit
films on Facebook Twitter and Instagram
bye bye